# Brain Gym
Brain Gym is a project of Princeton Neurotech club that aims to help students study more efficiently and effectively by use of a BCI.

Our focus training app will be a software application that functions like a typical physical training app found on one’s phone, keeping track of one’s daily progress and accomplishments but instead geared towards concentration and focus levels, directly applicable to students. The user can use the app on a daily basis to train themselves to reach their optimal concentration and focus state, maximizing their time for work/study and improving their work/study habits. 

This app’s simplest feature will tell the user when they are in a concentrated state and when they are losing concentration, wavering into more undirected paths. This will be shown on a visual interface in real time placed on a wristband the user wears where concentration level is plotted against time. In addition to this fundamental feature there will be a variety of different modes and added features involved with the app, which are described further below.

In regards to different modes, the user can decide to use the fundamental feature, recording their activity and outputting how concentrated they are at a given time. Additionally, the user can choose to set time limits on work and breaks dependent on their behavioral state, similar to an individualized pomodoro method. The user can also choose to input different tasks they need to complete in order to keep track of their work in an organized manner, all in the same space. One possibility is to allow the user to import their Google Calendar into the app so they do not need to reorganize their schedule on a different platform. Based on the tasks contained in the user’s schedule, the app can notify the user which type of work is most optimal to do at a given time based on their concentration level. For example, if the given task is monotonous, such as filing names, copying notes, or making flashcards, the app can inform the user to work on these tasks when their brain signals support a more reflective, restful state. On the other hand, if the task at hand involves more focus the app can inform the user to work on the task when their brain signals display an alert consciousness and active thinking state. Furthermore, if the given task requires deep concentration the app can advise the user to work on it when they are in problem-solving mode based on their brain signals where they have heightened perception. This way the user effectively can optimize their efficiency based on the present state of their brain waves. 

In regards to added features, there will be a tunnel vision component where when the user is in their peak concentration mode, all notifications other than emergencies will be filtered out from their devices. Furthermore, the user can choose to put on a wearable dilation tracker which follows their pupil dilations and uses this to output information about their concentration state. One can expand on this, developing a distance tracker for the eyelashes that keeps track of whether the user is falling asleep. Another possible mode is where the user can gain haptic feedback through wearing the wristwatch where they can physically feel whether they are deviating from their concentrated mode underneath the visual interface through reverberations. This haptic feedback wristwatch can also vibrate when the user begins feeling tired or detect heart rate and use this information to infer more about the user’s current behavioral state.


